# MimicME

## Abstract

Recently, Deep Neural Networks (DNNs) have been shown to outperform traditional methods  in many disciplines  such as computer vision, speech recognition and  natural language processing. A prerequisite for the successful application of DNNs is the big number of data. Even though various facial datasets exist for the case of 2D images, there is a remarkable absence of datasets when we have to deal with 3D faces. The available facial datasets are limited either in terms of expressions or in the number of subjects. This lack of large datasets hinders  the exploitation of the great advances that  DNNs can provide. In this work, we overcome these limitations by introducing MimicMe, a novel large-scale database of dynamic high-resolution 3D faces. MimicMe contains recordings of $4,700$ subjects with a great diversity on age, gender and  ethnicity. The recordings are in the form of 4D videos of subjects displaying a multitude of facial behaviours, resulting to over $280,000$  3D meshes in total. We have also manually annotated a big portion of these meshes with 3D facial landmarks and they have been categorized in the corresponding expressions.  We have also built very powerful blendshapes for parameterising facial behaviour.
MimicMe will be made publicly available and we envision that it will be extremely valuable to researchers working in many problems of face modelling and analysis, including 3D/4D face and facial expression recognition. We conduct several experiments and demonstrate the usefulness of the database for various applications.
